content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
title: Prof. Silvio Barra
role: Associate Professor
bio: Associate Professor @ University of Naples
interests:
  - Deep Learning
  - Machine Learning
  - Biometrics
  - Image Processing
  - Video Analysis
  - Financial Market Prediction
  - Medical Images Analysis
  - IoT Systems
social:
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/wk8ig1cwp1zcu72/Silvio%20Barra%20ITA%20CV.pdf?dl=0
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: cv
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4042-3000
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: orcid
  - display:
      header: false
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: google-scholar
    link: https://scholar.google.it/citations?user=dsXeL6YAAAAJ&hl=it
  - display:
      header: false
    icon_pack: fab
    icon: stripe-s
    link: https://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=56005376300
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://dblp.org/pid/152/7431.html
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: dblp
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Silvio_Barra
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: researchgate
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://publons.com/researcher/1606390/silvio-barra/
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: publons
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://stackoverflow.com/users/8098659/silviobarra
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: stackoverflow
  - display:
      header: false
    link: "mailto: silvio.barra@unina.it"
    icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
organizations:
  - name: Academic Site
    url: https://www.docenti.unina.it/silvio.barra
  - name: Department of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering
    url: https://www.dieti.unina.it/index.php/it/
  - name: University of Naples, Federico II
    url: http://www.unina.it/home;jsessionid=E551563B5AB5DD1F1E87BB7FEB82D1D4.node_publisher11
  - name: Projects of Intelligent Robotics and Advanced Cognitive Systems Laboratory
      (PRISCA Lab)
    url: http://prisca.unina.it/home
  - url: https://aibd.unica.it
    name: Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Laboratory (AIBD Lab)
  - name: ICAROS
    url: https://www.icaros.unina.it/index.php
  - name: KickTeck Srl
    url: https://www.kicktecksrl.it
  #- name: Visioscientiae
  #  url: https://www.visioscientiae.com
  #- name: The Cloud Alchemist
  #  url: https://www.thecloudalchemist.com
education:
  courses:
    - course: Ph.D. Degree in Computer Science
      year: 2016
      institution: University of Cagliari
    - course: Visiting Researcher
      year: 2014
      institution: Universidade da Beira Interior, UBI (Covilhã, Portugal)
    - course: Master Degree (cum laude) in Computer Science
      institution: University of Salerno
      year: 2012
    - course: Bachelor Degree (cum laude) in Computer Science
      institution: University of Salerno
      year: 2009
email: "silvio.barra@unina.it"
superuser: true
highlight_name: true
---
Silvio Barra was born in Battipaglia (SA – ITALY) on August 7, 1985.
He received the B.Sc. degree (cum laude) and the M.Sc. degree (cum laude) in Computer Science from the University of Salerno in 2009 and 2012, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the University of Cagliari in 2017.

He is currently Associate Professor at the Department of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering, University of Naples “Federico II”.

His research interests include artificial intelligence, pattern recognition, biometrics, video analysis, and smart city applications.

He has authored more than 50 papers in international journals, conferences, and books, and he actively participates in several national and international research projects.

He is co-founder of Kickteck, a research-driven startup in sports performance analytics, as well as member of Visioscientiae (since 2021) and co-founder of The Cloud Alchemist (since 2023), both spin-offs of the University of Cagliari.

Commit message:

Revise biography of Silvio Barra in author index
Updated the biography of Silvio Barra to include more detailed information about his academic background, research interests, and contributions to technology transfer through academic spin-offs.

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
title: Prof. Silvio Barra
role: Associate Professor
bio: Associate Professor @ University of Naples
interests:
  - Deep Learning
  - Machine Learning
  - Biometrics
  - Image Processing
  - Video Analysis
  - Financial Market Prediction
  - Medical Images Analysis
  - IoT Systems
social:
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/wk8ig1cwp1zcu72/Silvio%20Barra%20ITA%20CV.pdf?dl=0
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: cv
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4042-3000
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: orcid
  - display:
      header: false
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: google-scholar
    link: https://scholar.google.it/citations?user=dsXeL6YAAAAJ&hl=it
  - display:
      header: false
    icon_pack: fab
    icon: stripe-s
    link: https://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=56005376300
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://dblp.org/pid/152/7431.html
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: dblp
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Silvio_Barra
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: researchgate
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://publons.com/researcher/1606390/silvio-barra/
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: publons
  - display:
      header: false
    link: https://stackoverflow.com/users/8098659/silviobarra
    icon_pack: ai
    icon: stackoverflow
  - display:
      header: false
    link: "mailto: silvio.barra@unina.it"
    icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
organizations:
  - name: Academic Site
    url: https://www.docenti.unina.it/silvio.barra
  - name: Department of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering
    url: https://www.dieti.unina.it/index.php/it/
  - name: University of Naples, Federico II
    url: http://www.unina.it/home;jsessionid=E551563B5AB5DD1F1E87BB7FEB82D1D4.node_publisher11
  - name: Projects of Intelligent Robotics and Advanced Cognitive Systems Laboratory (PRISCA Lab)
    url: http://prisca.unina.it/home
  - url: https://aibd.unica.it
    name: Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Laboratory (AIBD Lab)
  - name: ICAROS
    url: https://www.icaros.unina.it/index.php
  - name: KickTeck Srl
    url: https://www.kicktecksrl.it
  #- name: Visioscientiae
  #  url: https://www.visioscientiae.com
  #- name: The Cloud Alchemist
  #  url: https://www.thecloudalchemist.com
education:
  courses:
    - course: Ph.D. Degree in Computer Science
      year: 2016
      institution: University of Cagliari
    - course: Visiting Researcher
      year: 2014
      institution: Universidade da Beira Interior, UBI (Covilhã, Portugal)
    - course: Master Degree (cum laude) in Computer Science
      institution: University of Salerno
      year: 2012
    - course: Bachelor Degree (cum laude) in Computer Science
      institution: University of Salerno
      year: 2009
email: "silvio.barra@unina.it"
superuser: true
highlight_name: true
---
Silvio Barra is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at the Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technologies (DIETI) of the University of Naples “Federico II”. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Cagliari, with a dissertation focused on the design of multibiometric platforms based on physiological and physical traits. His main research interests include Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Machine Learning, Biometrics, Multimodal Recognition Systems, Video Analysis, Data Security, and Privacy, with applications in Smart Cities, Healthcare, Autonomous Driving, and Sports Analytics.
Throughout his career, he has participated in numerous national and international research projects, both academic and industrial, often serving as Scientific Coordinator or Principal Investigator. He is the author of more than sixty scientific publications in international journals, conference proceedings, and edited volumes, and serves on the editorial boards of several journals, including Pattern Recognition Letters and Image and Vision Computing (Elsevier). He has also been Guest Editor for special issues on topics related to AI, digital security, and biometrics.
He is the co-founder of three academic spin-offs: VisioScientiae, The Cloud Alchemist—a company focused on cloud automation solutions powered by artificial intelligence—and KickTeck, an innovative start-up that combines AI and data analytics to enhance sports performance. These initiatives reflect his strong commitment to technology transfer and the promotion of applied research.
He collaborates with several national and international research groups and is the author of more than sixty scientific publications in top-tier journals and conferences.
